# LSTM and time series
## About Dataset
Dataset is generated with help of an IOT Device data represents room air temperature values with respect time.In Time Series observations are function of time, each data corresponds to instance of time, so there is relationship between different data points of dataset a special case of time series is univariate time series where you have only one feature to deal with.
## General overview
RNN(Recurrent neural networks) are networks that can process sequential data by using their internal state to store information about past inputs, that is to say the output of the last layer is the input the next layer or sequence and this input still possesses or stores the weights and activations of the last output making it very efficient for temporal dependent events.
Temporal dependent events are events that occur over time, that is the idea of something happening at one time having an impact on what happens at a later point in time which can be a time series.
Due to the dawn of the transformer neural networks, the RNN and its variants has been used less in text and speech processing ie Natural Language Processing Due to the sole reason of maximum token length Processing which the transformer can handle better unlike it's predecessor LSTM and GRU but that doesn't mean the RNN are completely useless because the limitation of a kind of neural network over another is pretty much always due to our limited understanding so this write up will help to shed light on these aspects. It is important to note that RNNs are used for automated control systems with periodic inputs, something the almighty transformer cannot do.
An example of a periodic control system is the heating and cooling system where the input signal can be temperature which fluctuates in a periodic manner. The RNNs can be trained to model this periodic behavior, generating control signals that respond to changes in the input signal and the variant of RNN used in this task will be the LSTM network.
## Summary
RNNs can be used in the field of engineering to create model networks for systems with simple harmonic motion(periodicity), control systems such as HVAC(heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) and also the field of electricity to optimize the use of energy resources and reduce costs. There are a number of fields where the RNN still dominates and should not be seen as obsolete because of the age of transformers and the knowledge will help in these temporal dependent concepts which has high implications in the world of engineering and other various fields.
